* Introduction

These are templates for a modern autoconf/automake build system, using separate
directories for everything and non-recursive make.

This document assumes you have basic notions of what autoconf and automake are.

Some important directory path variables set by configure.ac are:

  srcdir: The top directory for your package (standard autoconf variable).
  csource: Where you keep the source files.  These templates
           assume that you keep the source in a subdirectory of $srcdir.
  headerdir: If your package distribute header files, set to the directory
             where you keep them.
  utestdir: Directory where Check test suites are kept.

If you want to build libraries, you should use pkg-config.

* Using the template files

There are instructions as comments marked with two hash characters (##) in the
files configure.ac and Makefile.am.  Edit them and remove these comments.

The file svn-ignore contains listing of files which should not be kept under
revision control. Use them like this:

  frobnicator $ svn propset svn:ignore -F svn-ignore .

After that, be sure to read doc/BUILD-FAQ to know how to build your own
package ;)


* Portability

The system.h is an example of how to use the autoconf-determined
system-dependent information.  I think it is a good idea to keep all system
dependencies (all "#ifdef HAVE_SOMETHING") in a single header file like
system.h.  If you do that, it will be your choice whether to explicitly include
"config.h" too.


* Glossary

  . Autoconf is a tool for configuring sources.  It's main use is to deal with
    portability issues and ensuring the presence of needed dependencies.  It's
    also useful for configuring C defines and other options which should be set
    by the user before compiling.

  . Automake is a tool for generating makefiles with lots of standard targets.
    These targets are complicated to be built in a manner portable to different
    make implementations.  Many of them, like "make tags", "make uninstall" or
    "make distcheck", came to be expected by users.  Since they're complicated
    and mechanic, they're good candidates for auto generation.  Automake assumes
    that the package uses autoconf, and provides the infrastructure for libtool,
    gettext and check.

    We're requiring Automake to ensure portable, VPATH-enabled makefiles with
    targets used in the test system, like "make distcheck".

  . Libtool is a tool for building shared libraries and dlopen(3) modules.  Not
    all systems have a shared library system, and those who do often use very
    different schemes for building, installing, using and removing the
    libraries.  Libtool can take care of these tasks for many different systems.
